W-22448266 mule-credits-usage-and-rates-KS (#418)
mulesoft/docs-general: modules/ROOT/pages/mule-credits-usage-and-rates.adoc

> = Mule Credits Usage and Rates

Reviewer: ```suggestion
= Understand Mule Credits Usage and Rates
```

A Mule Credit is a fungible currency that allows you to draw down from a single capacity pool as you consume services across MuleSoft. Instead of managing different usage types for all products, you purchase a package of credits to use flexibly across the entire MuleSoft platform. As you use these capabilities, Anypoint Platform deducts the corresponding credit amounts from your available balance.

> Mule Credits apply to your entire Anypoint Platform organization and you can't manage them per business group. Use Mule Credits before the Order End Date set in the Usage Details table on your Order Form — rollovers aren't permitted. To see which usage types your subscription includes, refer to your Order Form, Subscription Plan, or Features and Entitlement Document.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Mule Credits apply to your entire Anypoint Platform organization and you can't manage them per business group. Use Mule Credits before the `Order End Date` set in the *Usage Details* table on your *Order Form* because rollovers are not permitted. To see which usage types your subscription includes, refer to your *Order Form*, *Subscription Plan*, or *Features and Entitlement Document*.
```

== Mule Credits by Subscription Plan

The usage types available to you depend on your subscription plan.

[%header%autowidth.spread]
|===
| Subscription Plan | Available Usage Types

| *MuleSoft Integration*
| MuleSoft Flows, MuleSoft Messages, Private Spaces, Network Connections, Load Balancers

| *MuleSoft Automation*
| IDP Pages, Flow Integration Tasks

| *MuleSoft AI & API Management*
| Managed Assets, Gateway Requests, Private Spaces, Network Connections

| *MuleSoft Agent Fabric*
| MuleSoft Flows, MuleSoft Messages, Managed Assets, Gateway Requests, Private Spaces, Network Connections

| *MuleSoft All-Access*
| All usage types: MuleSoft Flows, MuleSoft Messages, Managed Assets, Gateway Requests, IDP Pages, Flow Integration Tasks, Private Spaces, Network Connections, Load Balancers

| *MuleSoft All-Access License*
| All usage types: MuleSoft Flows, MuleSoft Messages, Managed Assets, Gateway Requests, IDP Pages, Flow Integration Tasks, Private Spaces, Network Connections, Load Balancers
|===

NOTE: MuleSoft All-Access License supports pre-commit and unlimited usage models.

== Usage Types

> Each usage type (also called a meter) tracks a specific dimension of platform consumption. Credit rates vary by monthly consumption volume and reset on the first day of each calendar month. You consume credits at the same rate across all environments, including production, pre-production, sandbox, and design. For the full tiered rate table, see the <<_rate_cards,Rate Cards>> section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each usage type (also called a meter) tracks a specific dimension of platform consumption. Credit rates vary by monthly consumption volume and reset on the first day of each calendar month. You consume credits at the same rate across all environments, including production, pre-production, sandbox, and design. For the full tiered rate table, see <<_rate_cards,Rate Cards>>.
```

[%header%autowidth.spread]
|===
| Usage Type | Description

| *MuleSoft Flows*

> | A flow is a sequence of logical operations configured within the XML `<flow/>` element of a Mule application. The runtime report tracks the flows within a deployed and running Mule application that contains a Mule event source or APIkit route requests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| A flow is a sequence of logical operations configured within the XML `<flow/>` element of a Mule application. The runtime report tracks flows in deployed and running Mule applications that contain a Mule event source or APIkit route requests.
```

> Mule apps in production environments typically use multiple flows and subflows to divide the app into functional modules or for error-handling purposes. For example, one flow might receive a record and transform data into a given format that another flow processes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Mule apps in production environments typically use multiple flows and subflows to divide the app into functional modules or for error-handling purposes. For example, one flow can receive a record and transform data into a given format that another flow processes.
```

> To calculate usage, MuleSoft tracks the number of flows across all business groups, environments, and applications on an hourly basis. For every 24 hour period starting at 00:00 UTC, MuleSoft identifies a single hour with the highest flow count as the daily max flow. Based on your contract term, MuleSoft then aggregates these daily maximums over the month or year to determine your final usage.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To calculate usage, MuleSoft tracks the number of flows across all business groups, environments, and applications on an hourly basis. For every 24-hour period starting at 00:00 UTC, MuleSoft identifies the hour with the highest flow count as the daily max flow. Based on your contract term, MuleSoft then aggregates these daily maximums over the month or year to determine final usage.
```

| *MuleSoft Messages*
| The total volume of data containers processed by the runtime. To track message usage, the runtime report counts the number of times a Mule event source triggers a message. To calculate usage, MuleSoft aggregates the number of messages daily (UTC time) and monthly. After a Mule event source triggers a message, the report doesn't track changes to the message because the application's flows process it internally.

| *Managed Assets*

> | An asset (API, Agent, MCP Server, or LLM) counts as managed if it has at least one active instance in https://docs.mulesoft.com/api-manager/latest/latest-overview-concept[API Manager^] deployed to a https://docs.mulesoft.com/mule-gateway/mule-gateway-capabilities-mule4[Mule Gateway^] or https://docs.mulesoft.com/gateway/latest/[Omni Gateway^]. Anypoint Platform counts usage per business group per day; if an asset has active instances across multiple business groups, it counts as one asset per group. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| An asset (API, Agent, MCP Server, or LLM) counts as managed if it has at least one active instance in https://docs.mulesoft.com/api-manager/latest/latest-overview-concept[API Manager] deployed to a https://docs.mulesoft.com/mule-gateway/mule-gateway-capabilities-mule4[Mule Gateway^] or https://docs.mulesoft.com/gateway/latest/[Omni Gateway^]. Anypoint Platform counts usage per business group per day; if an asset has active instances across multiple business groups, it counts as one asset per group. 
```

Reviewer: (Globally) No need to use carets if xref is within MuleSoft docs.
(Globally) Change the links to MuleSoft docs and use xref.

| *Network Connections*
| Network connections allow you to securely connect corporate data centers and on-premises applications to CloudHub 1.0 and https://docs.mulesoft.com/cloudhub-2/ch2-private-space-about#private-network[CloudHub 2.0^] using a VPN or AWS Transit Gateway. You consume credits based on the total number of active network connections per day. After you deprovision a network connection, it stops consuming credits from the next calendar date onwards.

| *Load Balancers*
| https://docs.mulesoft.com/cloudhub/cloudhub-dedicated-load-balancer[Dedicated Load Balancers^] used to distribute incoming traffic across multiple workers or instances. You consume credits based on the total number of provisioned load balancers per day. After you deprovision a load balancer, it stops consuming credits from the next calendar date onwards.
|===

== Rate Cards

You consume Mule Credits at the applicable multiplier rate based on the usage type identified in the https://www.salesforce.com/en-us/wp-content/uploads/sites/4/documents/mulesoft/Mule_Credit_Rate_Card.pdf[Mule Credit Rate Card^].

> Use Mule Credits before the Order End Date set forth in the Usage Details table on the Order Form — MuleSoft doesn't permit rollovers. If your usage happens to exceed your contracted amount, MuleSoft automatically sends a monthly overage invoice to your primary billing contact at your standard contracted rate. Contact your account team with any questions about your contract or billing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your usage exceeds your contracted amount, MuleSoft sends a monthly overage invoice to your primary billing contact at your standard contracted rate. Contact your account team with any questions about your contract or billing.
```
